[MUSIC]
Perhaps nothing enhances a website
better than strategically placed images.
In this lecture we will learn how to
include images in your HTML documents.
Okay, so we're looking at images.html,
which is located in
the examples Lecture10 folder.
And you may recognize this file from
a few lectures ago where this is a famous
quote from Theodore Roosevelt.
And, by the way, I apologize,
I made a typo before.
Theodore Roosevelt is spelled with an E.
So for you eagle eyes out there who
noticed that I misspelled Theodore I
apologize.
It was just a typo.
Anyway our task here is to display
an image right before the quote itself.
And we actually have
a couple of images here.
And since I wanted to start with one,
let me comment this one out, and
at the same time show you what
an HTML comment looks like.
And it's pretty simple, it starts with
a less than bracket, exclamation point,
dash, dash, and then it gets closed
with a dash, dash, right angle bracket.
And what will happen when you
load this page into the browser
Is that the browser will completely ignore
this comment and will not render it.
So let's take a look at the image
tag that we wanted to discuss.
The image is displayed in HTML using this
img tag which is just short for image.
And the src attribute of the img tag is
a URL that points to some image file.
Now this URL is no different
than the href that you've seen
with the regular link A tag.
It could be a relative URL, or
it can be an absolute URL,
even one that contains an external link.
Next, we specifiy the width and
the height of the image.
While not absolutely required,
it's a really good idea to always
specify the width and the height.
And I will demonstrate to you
in a few minutes why that is.
And also the alt tag which
is used by screen readers
that help people with visual impairment.
Let's save the document and
take a look at it in the browser.
As you could see, this is the image
that we included in our HTML.
The interesting part here is that
it appears as if it's another
character within our text,
which should right away tell you that
an img tag is an inline element.
If it weren't,
the image would be on its own line,
pushing everything behind
it onto a new line.
Next let's take a look at the other
img tag and uncomment it so
we could use it within our page.
As you could see this is an external
link pointing to some image on the web.
Let's save the file and
preview it in the browser again.
Let's reload it.
As you could see, we get this image of, I
think ants, crawling on a blade of grass.
It's very often the case
that you use images
as sort of these anchors within
your visual layout of your page.
And if this images take time to load,
the page might appear jumpy.
So this is actually the primary reason
why you would want to use the width and
the height of the image.
You want to tell the browser
to reserve this space and
to visually partition your page such that
it knows that there should be something
going on in there even if
it takes time to load it.
So let's simulate what would happen to
our layout if we removed the width and
the height from this image.
Let's go ahead and save it,
go to our webpage.
And instead of just reloading it, since
our Internet or at least my Internet is
pretty fast here, I'm going to
simulate Internet being very slow.
And we'll see how the fact that this
paragraph and this paragraph is visually
separated by this image is not
necessarily going to happen right away.
And we'll see some jumping.
But the way we're going to
accomplish that is by bringing up
the Chrome developer tools.
And I'm on the Mac so
I'm going to press Option+Cmd+I.
And if you're in Windows,
I believe it's Ctrl+Option or Ctrl+Alt+I.
And I'm going to go to the Network tab.
And if you notice here,
there is a throttling setting here.
And it says No throttling.
What I'm going to change that to,
the lowest possible setting.
And now I'm going to go ahead and
reload the page.
And watch what happens in
terms of this space between
the Theodore Roosevelt and
the actual quote.
So let's go ahead and reload the page.
And noticed how it jumped.
The first there was Theodore Roosevelt
was right next to the quote,
and then once the image
loaded it jumped in.
And the reason that happened was because
the browser did not up front know
how large the image was going to be.
Even worse if you're relying on the image
to give some sort of a visual
layout to your page and for
some reason the image did not load,
for example the URL could be broken.
So let me go ahead and break it just by
removing a couple of letters from the URL.
And if URL is broken, this is what
you're going to get if you don't specify
the width and the height of the image.
Let's go back to our page and
let's click reload, and there you go.
If we relied on a specific amount of
space between the quote and the footer
of this page, well we can no longer see
that space since the image did not load.
However, if we go back and
undo this and still break the URL, yet
specifying the width and the height of the
image, let's go back and reload the page.
You'll see that even though the image
is not loading, the visual spacing and
the visual layout remains
correct as we intended it to be.
So to summarize,
images can truly enhance your website,
especially if you use them correctly.
And remember to always specify width and
height of the image tag whenever possible,
because without it,
it may break your layouts.